Welcome back all. Ok
so, in this chapter
we will introduce
standard types in C++
that are part of the
standard library
so in short STL these
types make your
programming experience
a lot easier and
they save you a lot
of headaches so here
we will cover the following one's let's
put him down here so STD vector
std string std map  it gave
us a very interesting, this is a very
interesting type map, it's very nice I've
actually utilized in the keylogger
course in order to
save certain set of
company of pairs,
which can be accessed
through an identifier for an
index however you wish to refer to it
anyway std, function and std, dq
you might have seen some of them
probably not but we're going to go
over these and we'll see where we end up so
let's just go ahead and remove it from
here. So, the very first one that I'm
going to go over as the vector
so std, colon colon, vector,
represents basically
a race vector represents
a raise that can
change in size so
dynamic, flexible and
it is also reliable
it is a part of the vector
library as well so to
include vectors in
your code you would
need the following
basically just a
live, here include
vector that set and
then we can move on down
not that not that much different from
the arrays
but they do take a
larger chunk of memory
space however unlike
the arrays they are very much dinamic
Vector, let's go
ahead and try one so
let's declare a
vector of 10 integers
type in int and we shall name it vec1
yeah let's just leave it like that, let's
put this to 10 so all elements will
initially have a value
of 0 do notice the
similarities would
raise ok so let's go ahead
declare a double, vector and I'm just
trying to demonstrate the sintax here
it's not really that complicated at all
it's fairly similar to the arrays
however you register bit of a different
fashion and you can also declare an
empty vector as well off zero elements
not at all not at all the elements are
initialized to 0 but
that all the elements
are 0 so the default
initialization
for the int type is 0 and for the double
is 0.0
down below, we can have like
vector and we can leave
this one to be int as
well but just type in 3
that's it, you don't actually need to go
any further you can declare a vector
that is completely
empty that has 0
elements, ok so we
can also declare a
vector with elements and we can
state that we want to initialize the
we can stated we want each and
every element to be initialized to a
certain value without the loops, but it
does need to be the same value in this
case, vector int and
then we can type
in vector, ok this
is going to be like 3,7
ok we shall have three elements and all three
elements will be initialized to 7 we can
pull the size of the
vector, see if you
type in, let me show
you, unsigned int
let's take a first well,
this spell terribly,
vect1_size so that's
one size and I can
state that is equal to vec1.size, so this will be the size of this
the size of this integer, well the value
that will be assigned to the variable
that's one size of type unsigned int
will be 10, because that is the size of
the vector, if you want to print out the
elements of the vector, we would need to
use a loop simple
enough to do really so
int I equals 0, semicolon
I is less than
and you would be able to pull the size
without any bigger problems by just
using the.. let's take the fourth one
and let's print out all the sevens
dot, size, plusplus I, std, colon colon
that's four, I. Ok so,
these elements are
accessed pretty much
the same way as
in the arrays, do you remember this
part from the arrays? how about it's to pull it?
although we couldn't use the
for loops condtition was
was somewhat different but no big deal
there it will just go over each and
every element and it
will printed out onto
the screen, let me just
show you so its 777
that's what gets printed out onto the
screen then go into the new line just and
add spaces between them
ok so it is also
recommended to access
elements by using
the dot at in the
provide in the index
instead of going about
things this way so let
me show you that as
well I mean it's
just a different way
of accessing it so
int el in an element
equals vect1 and we
put a dot and we type
at, see? you notice
it's the same syntax
as with the size the
size of some sort
of a method that
returns some sort of a
value at will pretty
much is pretty much
the same thing so we'll
just say at and I
don't know 0, the value of this would be
the same as me basically typing in this
so that's 0 so these two
two will give you
the same value, these two will contain
the same value so to say,
so let's delete that,
this is kind of intuitive
so at and then
the element the element index sorry
a semicolon here
at certain index. Ok it compiles and runs
let's go look for the printout just
looking to see if I
have any errors in a
code, you can
periodically do compile
build and run, why?
Just to see if
you have any syntax error, don't
write the whole code out and then attempt building and rather instead
do many bills while you're actually
coding
moving onwards method .
empty well
method empty, returns
a bool value which
indicates whether the
vector is empty or not,
let me go ahead and
write that out for you
bool empty, here are some
birds in the background
there is nothing I can do
about it, it's spring so
they're all around the building vect
and it doesn't help that I that I feed
pigeons here so, it
might be a terrible
thing for the sound
but oh well anyway I
don't think that you can actually hear
them but just wanted to mention that just in case
so let's do . empty
again we're using
the same syntax
utilizing a different
method to check whether the vector is
empty or not and we shall use another
one bool emp2 so empty 1 empty 23 .
empty
semicolon, so you see
how we're using these
methods just by a dot
adding a dot here
and we're trying to
figure it out so
that 2 is that empty and you have
3 this 3 is empty basically
completely, it doesn't have any elements of
whatsoever
while the vets to
actually has five
elements that this is
a booling, basically
true or false
one of it too
this is not determining
whether the variables have been
initialized to something, this is just
determining whether the size of the
vector is equal to 0 or not say you see
the size of this factor is zero and the
size of this factor is five so this one
is not empty and this one is empty
simple as that that is how it is
evaluated ok so now
let's go ahead and
take a look at pushback method
std, colon colon, cout,
vec3.size std, colon colon
and endl, so this is going
to print out the size of
the vector 3 that
we have here which
will be basically
I mean ok can you
guess what is the size of
the vec ?3 this one is 10,
this one is 5 and this
one is 0 so if we do the
following vec.push_back
100, so this is adding
100 you'll see soon enough
what I mean by that
and let's go ahead and do this
ok three so let's go
ahead and build and
run this, its 1, so
see now you have now
we actually now it's no longer and it's
no longer empty basically, so here it
was zero yep so here
it was zero and we
did we need to push
back and then is
actually one ok what
else can we do? we
can initialize a
vector so that's like
super simple to do so, std, colon colon
so 54321 I don't
really need anymore and you would print
them out basically the same way you
would print out an array it's not a bad
idea to use the for
each loop here as it is
shorter than the for
loop for this purpose
and easier to use so
int I, vec5, hopefully
you know how to do
this this is by now,
I'm gonna create a
very handy print out
of all the elements
here and for example
delete the last element so that's vect5.pop
back, let's it- so this
is just another method
this is how you would
delete the last element
and let's go ahead and build it ok so 54321 all
printed out let's go ahead and do this
so let's give it an endl
and std, colon colon, cout and so 54
321 and it's here 5432 there
you go, so does indeed delete the last
element. Ok that would be it as far as the
vectors in concern here very very very
similar to arrays, they function in a different way, they are
more expensive to use in terms of system
resources but you know a lot of
situations they are
worth it if you they
have a dynamic size
so it's not like
the arrays when you need
to have like one fixed
size and that it cannot
change it is one
and it should always have that size and
you might wonder why would be able to
use arrays? and why don't we
always use vectors? Well as I said the
vectors are not
as cheap in terms
of system resources as the arrays and
sometimes you want to have certain
things which are immutable
wherever you can use array, if you
cannot use an array ok find go to
vectors. Anyway bet your farewell and
we shall see each other in the next
tutorial.